---
layout: post
title:  "Land of the Rair Dev Blog #35 - Welcome Back Edition"
date:   2024-09-06 6:00:00
author: Seiyria
---

Hey everyone! It's been _checks watch_ about two years! I wanted to come back and work on Rair, and I wanted to get a lot of cool stuff done. It's been a few months in the making for this update, but here goes:

# Modkit Rework

The modkit has undergone a total rewrite, including adding a bunch of new value to the tool. And I use it for everything! No more YAML editing. This will simplify usage, ensure that the software is good for users, and provide a solid amount of sanity checking when making content. There's a whole new guide on it, too! You can find it [here](https://rair.land/docs/modkit/).

If you want to only browse data, you can check that out [here](https://data.rair.land/). It's read-only and lets you see most of the content (no maps).

I would write more about this, but it's probably easier to check it out and check the documentation. However, this is where the bulk of my recent work has gone.

# Arcanist

To better test out my system, and further my goal of having strange, interesting, and downright arcane things to find in the game, I've added a new class to the game. You cannot choose this class from level 1, and it will likely require you to be level 50 to even get the components for it. It could thusly be shared to a lower level class. Admittedly, I'm not even sure how the logistics of this will play out with real players finding it, but I'm curious to see!

The Arcanist is a new class, somewhat of a hybrid between mage, healer, and thief. It focuses strongly on single target damage and brings unique buffs into the game currently only available on items. My intention is that each hidden class will get 25 traits, one whole trait tree, and no specializations beyond that. They probably also will not be factored in balance decisions for the game. That is to say, it's a just-for-fun thing for me to sneak in every now and then.

# Depths of Madness

Work on the newest map has begun! It's not ready yet, but when it is, that'll be posted, too. The intention is to diversify level 20-35 content so it's not all Frozen Catacombs.

# Other Fixes & Features

- vortex now has a limit of 50 item stacks, but the cooldown is now reduced to 1 second
- AoE spells now have a limit of 12 creatures
- new GM commands for content debugging
- thieves can no longer use mp potions
- lots of crafting-adjacent fixes
- transmute potency was scaled down
- artificer will no longer eat more items than needed
- creatures will now give more XP based on how long they've been alive, up to 400% for 8 hours
- massteleport will no longer go on cooldown immediately after the popup opens
- the entire frontend and backend have been upgraded to new versions
- travellers can level up
- NPCs will now de-agro over time, removing agro for a creature after 30 seconds of not being around that creature
- trash loot value has been lowered
- eagleeye works again
- new BGM from @Rotness for towns!
- lore is now tracked [on the wiki](https://github.com/LandOfTheRair/LandOfTheRair/wiki/Lore)

As always you can find the full changelog [here](https://github.com/LandOfTheRair/LandOfTheRair/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

# What's Coming Up?

🤷‍

As always you can find the full roadmap [here](https://github.com/LandOfTheRair/LandOfTheRair/projects/2).

Until next time,

- Seiyria
