---
layout: post
title: "Land of the Rair Dev Blog #39 - ModKit Improvements & Lots of Fixes"
date: 2025-09-26 6:00:00
author: Seiyria
---

Greetings Rairians! This has been a fun week with a lot of fixes, adjustments, and a bit too much modkit work. Most of the week has gone to that, but the rest has gone to finishing off the Ancient Tree encounter.

# ModKit Improvements

- new report: look at all items and npcs used by a map
- when looking at a sprite chooser, it shows the # of times that sprite has been used (to hopefully prevent duplicating the same sprite too much)
- the modkit will now load the number of sprites dynamically, meaning it no longer needs to be updated to add new sprites
- lots of fixes.
# Balance Changes

- bouncing daggers should no longer be able to hit players
- gemsense will now show stats for encrusted items
- XP formula changes from 19-20 to make it more smooth
- lich encounter is now a bit more spicy
- beary encounter is now a bit more spicy

# Other Fixes & Features

- icons are now loaded individually instead of as a font, meaning that there should no longer be issues with icons changing on their own
- icons are now batch loaded, and built into the game (increasing the bundle size by about 2mb)
- the desktop version now caches assets right alongside it, to prevent hitting the server too much
- add a new thief trait: replenishing reverberation - boosts ooc stealth regen
- add new spell: chromatic bolt
- added a new promo code: `C5B6D-CE2EC-861F4-85CC0` thanks Baraheart for the suggestion!
- 0oz succors off belt no longer dupe/break
- barbarians will no longer attack player familiars
- GM: examine item now shows the base item definition
- gold pile sprite has been fixed for +6
- every item description in the game (+/- a few) are now unique
- added a medium barnecro ring to frostlands vendor
- fix effect-ending timers not showing up correctly in some cases

# What's Coming Up?

The final encounter for the Ancient Tree map is coming up. The loot is really spicy, and I hope it lives up to the hype.

As always you can find the full roadmap [here](https://github.com/orgs/LandOfTheRair/projects/2/views/1).

Until next time,

- Seiyria
